= Ruby Applets

== DESCRIPTION

Ruby Applets, `Ra` for short, is a Ruby command system. You can think of it as
an alternate system bin designed specifically to Ruby tools.

Ra is a spin off the earlier Ratch project. It came about after some
consideration of how a reusable "ruby bin" would best be designed. Ratch could
have been used Ratch as is by simply adding a `bin/` equivalent directory within
Ruby's LOAD_PATH. This would have been a straight analog to the Unix `bin/`
system. However, after further consideration it became clear that a system
akin to boson{http://boson.org} is better suited to Ruby. This way methods
would be available on both the command line and via Ruby scripts and IRB without
any fancy script routing.


== FEATURES

* Commands are easily created and distributable via package mangagers.
* Sophisticated batch scripting DSL is built-in.
* Integrated help system based on `ronn` produces beautiful help text.
* Command availablity is context aware.


== INSTALL

  $ gem install ra


== FAQ

=== Q. Why not just use Boson?

A. Boson is a good system, but two things set Ra apart. 1) It provides an
underlying "batch scripting" DSL via the `path` gem. This makes writing
file-oriented tools much easier. 2) It's design is much simpler, giving more
control over to the developer.

=== Q. Is Ratch still around and useful now that Ra exists.

A. Ratch still exists and in future versions will actually depend on Ra.
Ratch is still useful for creating oridinaly executables with the advantage
of the batch scripting DSL provided by Ra --not to mention all the
plugins other may have added to Ra.


== COPYING

(Apache 2.0 License)

Copyright (c) 2010 Thomas Sawyer

